README.md, before:

# sbt CcPlugin (sbt-cc)

This is an sbt plugin to compile C and C++ source files.

## Usage

### Install

This plugin has not been published to any of public maven or ivy2 repositories yet.
To use this plugin, you need to download the source tree, compile and install it
in your local repository. If you have not downloaded the source tree, check it out
with git command.

    $ git clone https://github.com/tnakamot/sbt-cc.git
   
Then, compile it and install with the commands below.

    $ cd sbt-cc
    $ sbt compile publishLocal

The last command `publishLocal` normally installs this plugin into your local
ivy2 repository which is typically located at `~/.ivy2/local`.

### Use this plugin in your sbt project

To use this plugin in your sbt project, add the following line to `project/plugins.sbt`.

    addSbtPlugin("com.github.tnakamot" % "sbt-cc" % "0.1")

If `project/plugins.sbt` does not exist in your project, just make it with the above
one line. Then, make sure that you import `sbtcc` module in `build.sbt` as shown 
below:

    import sbtcc._

Finally, call `enablePlugins(CcPlugin)` for your project as shown in below. 

    lazy val testProject = (project in file("."))
      .enablePlugins(CcPlugin)
      .settings(
        ... // settings for CcPlugin
       )

All the settings for CcPlugin go inside `.settings( ... )`. See the examples below
to see how you can make settings.

## Examples

There are several example sbt projects under `example/` directory. README.md in each
example project provides hands-on tutorial about how to configure this plugin for
your C/C++ projects.

Below is the list of the example sbt projects. If you are a beginner, it is recommended
to go through all the examples below in this order:

* [simple-c](examples/simple-c/README.md): the simplest C project
* [multi-execs](examples/multi-execs/README.md): multiple executable targets in one project
* [simple-cxx](examples/simple-cxx/README.md): a simple C++ project
* [mix-cxx-and-c](examples/mix-cxx-and-c/README.md): an example to mix C and C++. Also shows how to switch the default commands for compiling, linking and archiving.
* [external-headers](examples/external-headers/README.md): an example to include additional header search paths and source files.
* [packaging-with-universal](examples/packaging-with-universal/README.md): an example to pass the targets of CcPlugin to other tasks and package them.

## TODO

* publish this plugin
* make an example of test

Commit message:

Use published plugin instead of the one locally installed.

README.md, after:

# sbt CcPlugin (sbt-cc)

This is an sbt plugin to compile C and C++ source files.

## Usage

To use this plugin in your sbt project, add the following lines to `project/plugins.sbt`.

    resolvers += Resolver.bintrayIvyRepo("nyakamoto", "sbt-plugins")
    addSbtPlugin("com.github.tnakamot" % "sbt-cc" % "0.0.3")

If `project/plugins.sbt` does not exist in your project, just make it with the above
two lines. Then, make sure that you import `sbtcc` module in `build.sbt` as shown 
below:

    import sbtcc._

Finally, call `enablePlugins(CcPlugin)` for your project as shown in below. 

    lazy val testProject = (project in file("."))
      .enablePlugins(CcPlugin)
      .settings(
        ... // settings for CcPlugin
       )

All the settings for CcPlugin go inside `.settings( ... )`. See the examples below
to see how you can make settings.

## Examples

There are several example sbt projects under `example/` directory. README.md in each
example project provides hands-on tutorial about how to configure this plugin for
your C/C++ projects.

Below is the list of the example sbt projects. If you are a beginner, it is recommended
to go through all the examples below in this order:

* [simple-c](examples/simple-c/README.md): the simplest C project
* [multi-execs](examples/multi-execs/README.md): multiple executable targets in one project
* [simple-cxx](examples/simple-cxx/README.md): a simple C++ project
* [mix-cxx-and-c](examples/mix-cxx-and-c/README.md): an example to mix C and C++. Also shows how to switch the default commands for compiling, linking and archiving.
* [external-headers](examples/external-headers/README.md): an example to include additional header search paths and source files.
* [packaging-with-universal](examples/packaging-with-universal/README.md): an example to pass the targets of CcPlugin to other tasks and package them.

## For developers

For those who develops and maintians this plugin, there is [developer's note](DEVELOPER.md). It includes the instruction about how to release a new version of this plugin.

## TODO

* make an example of test
